Pima Indians Diabetes Data Set 
Abstract: From National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; Includes cost data (donated by Peter Turney)

Source:

Original Owners: 

National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases 

Donor of database: 

Vincent Sigillito (vgs '@' aplcen.apl.jhu.edu) 
Research Center, RMI Group Leader 
Applied Physics Laboratory 
The Johns Hopkins University 
Johns Hopkins Road 
Laurel, MD 20707 
(301) 953-6231

Data Set Information:

Several constraints were placed on the selection of these instances from a larger database. In particular, all patients here are females at least 21 years old of Pima Indian heritage. ADAP is an adaptive learning routine that generates and executes digital analogs of perceptron-like devices. It is a unique algorithm; see the paper for details.

Attribute Information:

1. Number of times pregnant 
2. Plasma glucose concentration a 2 hours in an oral glucose tolerance test 
3. Diastolic blood pressure (mm Hg) 
4. Triceps skin fold thickness (mm) 
5. 2-Hour serum insulin (mu U/ml) 
6. Body mass index (weight in kg/(height in m)^2) 
7. Diabetes pedigree function 
8. Age (years) 
9. Class variable (0 or 1) 

** UPDATE: Until 02/28/2011 this web page indicated that there were no missing values in the dataset. As pointed out by a repository user, this cannot be true: there are zeros in places where they are biologically impossible, such as the blood pressure attribute. It seems very likely that zero values encode missing data. However, since the dataset donors made no such statement we encourage you to use your best judgement and state your assumptions.

Relevant Papers:

Smith, J.W., Everhart, J.E., Dickson, W.C., Knowler, W.C., & Johannes, R.S. (1988). Using the ADAP learning algorithm to forecast the onset of diabetes mellitus. In Proceedings of the Symposium on Computer Applications and Medical Care} (pp. 261--265). IEEE Computer Society Press. 
[Web Link] 

